ci-docs/customer-card-add-in.md, before:

---
title: "Customer Card Add-in for Dynamics 365 apps (preview) (contains video)"
description: "Show customer profile data from Customer Insights in Dynamics 365 apps with this add-in."
ms.date: 02/02/2022
ms.reviewer: mhart

ms.subservice: audience-insights
ms.topic: conceptual    
author: Nils-2m
ms.author: nikeller
manager: shellyha
searchScope: 
  - ci-customers-page
  - ci-search-filter
  - ci-customer-card
  - customerInsights
---

# Customer Card Add-in for Dynamics 365 apps (preview)

Get a 360-degree view of your customers directly in Dynamics 365 apps. With the Customer Card Add-in installed in a supported Dynamics 365 app, you can choose to display customer profile fields, insights, and activity timeline. The add-in will retrieve data from Customer Insights without affecting the data in the connected Dynamics 365 app.

> [!VIDEO https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/videoplayer/embed/RWN1qv]

## Prerequisites

- Dynamics 365 model-driven apps, such as Sales or Customer Service, version 9.0 and later.
- For your Dynamics 365 data to map to the Customer Insights customer profiles, we recommend it's [ingested from the Dynamics 365 app using the Microsoft Dataverse connector](connect-power-query.md). If you use a different method to ingest Dynamics 365 contacts (or accounts), make sure the `contactid` (or `accountid`) field is set as the [primary key for that data source during the data unification process](map-entities.md#select-primary-key-and-semantic-type-for-attributes).
- All Dynamics 365 users of the Customer Card Add-in must be [added as users](permissions.md) in Customer Insights to see the data.
- [Configured search and filter capabilities](search-filter-index.md) in Customer Insights.
- Each add-in control relies on specific data in Customer Insights. Some data and controls are only available in environments of specific types. The add-in configuration will inform you if a control isn't available due to the selected environment type. Learn more about [environment use cases](work-with-business-accounts.md).
  - **Measure control** requires [configured customer attribute measures](measures.md).
  - **Intelligence control** requires data generated using [predictions or custom models](predictions-overview.md).
  - **Customer details control** shows all fields from the profile available in the unified customer profile.
  - **Enrichment control** requires active [enrichments](enrichment-hub.md) applied to customer profiles. The card add-in supports these enrichments: [Brands](enrichment-microsoft.md) provided by Microsoft, [Interests](enrichment-microsoft.md) provided by Microsoft, and [Office engagement data](enrichment-office.md) provided by Microsoft.
  - **Contacts control** requires a contact semantic entity type.
  - **Timeline control** requires [configured activities](activities.md).

## Install the Customer Card Add-in

The Customer Card Add-in is a solution for customer engagement apps in Dynamics 365. To install the solution:

1. Go to AppSource and search for **Dynamics Customer Card**.

1. Select the [Customer Card Add-in on AppSource](https://appsource.microsoft.com/product/dynamics-365/mscrm.dynamics_365_customer_insights_customer_card_addin?tab=Overview) and select **Get It Now**.

You may need to sign in with your admin credentials for the Dynamics 365 app to install the solution. It can take some time for the solution to be installed to your environment.

## Configure the Customer Card Add-in

1. As an admin, go to the **Settings** section in Dynamics 365 and select **Solutions**.

1. Select the **Display Name** link for the **Dynamics 365 Customer Insights Customer Card Add-in (Preview)** solution.

   > [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
   > ![Select display name.](media/select-display-name.png "Select display name.")

1. Select **Sign in** and enter the credentials for the admin account you use to configure Customer Insights.

   > [!NOTE]
   > Check that the browser pop-up blocker does not block the authentication window when you select the **Sign in** button.

1. Select the Customer Insights environment you want to fetch data from.

1. Define the field mapping to records in the Dynamics 365 app. Depending on your data in Customer Insights, you can choose to map the following options:
   - To map with a contact, select the field in the Customer entity that matches the ID of your contact entity.
   - To map with an account, select the field in the Customer entity that matches the ID of your account entity.

   > [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
   > ![Contact ID field.](media/contact-id-field.png "Contact ID field.")

1. Select **Save configuration** to save the settings.

1. Next, you need to assign security roles in Dynamics 365 so users can customize and see the customer card. In Dynamics 365, go to **Settings** > **Security** > **Users**. Select the users to edit user roles and select **Manage roles**.

1. Assign the **Customer Insights Card Customizer** role to users who will customize the content shown on the card for the whole organization.

## Add Customer Card controls to forms

Depending on your scenario, you can choose to add controls to either the **Contact** form or **Account** form. If your Customer Insights environment is for business accounts, we recommended adding the controls to the Account form. In that case, replace "contact" in the below steps with "account."

1. To add the Customer Card controls to your Contact form, go to the **Settings** > **Customizations** in Dynamics 365.

1. Select **Customize the System**.

1. Browse to the **Contact** entity, expand it, and select **Forms**.

1. Select the contact form you want to add the Customer Card controls to.

    > [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
    > ![Select Contact form.](media/contact-active-forms.png "Select Contact form.")

1. To add a control, in the form editor, drag any field from the **Field Explorer** to where you want the control to appear.

1. Select the field on the form that you just added and select **Change Properties**.

1. Go to the **Controls** tab and select **Add Control**. Choose one of the available custom controls and select **Add**.

1. In the **Field Properties** dialog, clear the **Display label on the form** check box.

1. Select the **Web** option for the control. For the Enrichment control, select which enrichment type you want to display by configuring the **enrichmentType** field. Add a separate enrichment control for each enrichment type.

1. Select **Save** and **Publish** to publish the updated contact form.

1. Go to the published contact form. You'll see the newly added control. You might need to sign in the first time you use it.

1. To customize what you want to show on the custom control, select the edit button in the upper-right corner.

## Upgrade Customer Card Add-in

The Customer Card Add-in doesn't upgrade automatically. To upgrade to the latest version, follow these steps in the Dynamics 365 app that has the add-in installed.

1. In the Dynamics 365 app, go to **Settings** > **Customization** and select **Solutions**.

1. In the table of add-ins, look for **CustomerInsightsCustomerCard** and select the row.

1. Select the **Apply Solution Upgrade** in the action bar.

   :::image type="content" source="media/customer-card-add-in-upgrade.png" alt-text="Upgrade the solution in the Customization area of Dynamics 365 apps.":::

1. After starting the upgrade process, you'll see a loading indicator until the upgrade completes. If there's no newer version, the upgrade will show an error message.

## Troubleshooting

### Controls from Customer Card Add-in don't find data

**Problem:**

Even with correctly configured ID fields, the controls can't find data for any customer.  

**Resolution:**

1. Make sure you configured the Card Add-in according to the instructions: [Configure the Customer Card Add-in](#configure-the-customer-card-add-in)

1. Review the data ingestion configuration. Edit the data source for the Dynamics 365 system that contains the contact ID GUID. If the contact ID GUID is shown with uppercase characters in the Power Query editor, try the following steps:
    1. Edit the data source to open the data source in Power Query Editor.
    1. Select the contact ID column.
    1. Select **Transform** in the header bar to see available actions.
    1. Select **lowercase**. Validate if GUIDs in the table are now lowercase.
    1. Save the data source.
    1. Run data ingestion, unification, and downstream processes to propagate the changes to the GUID.

After the system has completed the full refresh, the Customer Card Add-in controls should show the expected data.

[!INCLUDE [footer-include](includes/footer-banner.md)]

Commit message:

Update to prereq bullet #5
I've split prerequisite bullet #5 into two: First one is about the instance type only. Here I added a sentence stating where the error will be shown. 2nd bullet is the one about the different controls and what they depend on.
My motivation for this split comes from customers struggling to notice that instance types (B2C vs B2B) is a major factor for the card add-in. 
I considered grouping the 2nd bullet with in the first, but I doubt it makes a difference worth the cost of having such deep bullet points.

ci-docs/customer-card-add-in.md, after:

---
title: "Customer Card Add-in for Dynamics 365 apps (preview) (contains video)"
description: "Show customer profile data from Customer Insights in Dynamics 365 apps with this add-in."
ms.date: 02/02/2022
ms.reviewer: mhart

ms.subservice: audience-insights
ms.topic: conceptual    
author: Nils-2m
ms.author: nikeller
manager: shellyha
searchScope: 
  - ci-customers-page
  - ci-search-filter
  - ci-customer-card
  - customerInsights
---

# Customer Card Add-in for Dynamics 365 apps (preview)

Get a 360-degree view of your customers directly in Dynamics 365 apps. With the Customer Card Add-in installed in a supported Dynamics 365 app, you can choose to display customer profile fields, insights, and activity timeline. The add-in will retrieve data from Customer Insights without affecting the data in the connected Dynamics 365 app.

> [!VIDEO https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/videoplayer/embed/RWN1qv]

## Prerequisites

- Dynamics 365 model-driven apps, such as Sales or Customer Service, version 9.0 and later.
- For your Dynamics 365 data to map to the Customer Insights customer profiles, we recommend it's [ingested from the Dynamics 365 app using the Microsoft Dataverse connector](connect-power-query.md). If you use a different method to ingest Dynamics 365 contacts (or accounts), make sure the `contactid` (or `accountid`) field is set as the [primary key for that data source during the data unification process](map-entities.md#select-primary-key-and-semantic-type-for-attributes).
- All Dynamics 365 users of the Customer Card Add-in must be [added as users](permissions.md) in Customer Insights to see the data.
- [Configured search and filter capabilities](search-filter-index.md) in Customer Insights.
- Some data and controls are only available in environments of specific types. The add-in configuration will inform you if a control isn't available due to the selected environment type. This error will show within the control when rendering it. Learn more about [environment use cases](work-with-business-accounts.md).
- Each add-in control relies on specific data in Customer Insights.
  - **Measure control** requires [configured customer attribute measures](measures.md).
  - **Intelligence control** requires data generated using [predictions or custom models](predictions-overview.md).
  - **Customer details control** shows all fields from the profile available in the unified customer profile.
  - **Enrichment control** requires active [enrichments](enrichment-hub.md) applied to customer profiles. The card add-in supports these enrichments: [Brands](enrichment-microsoft.md) provided by Microsoft, [Interests](enrichment-microsoft.md) provided by Microsoft, and [Office engagement data](enrichment-office.md) provided by Microsoft.
  - **Contacts control** requires a contact semantic entity type.
  - **Timeline control** requires [configured activities](activities.md).

## Install the Customer Card Add-in

The Customer Card Add-in is a solution for customer engagement apps in Dynamics 365. To install the solution:

1. Go to AppSource and search for **Dynamics Customer Card**.

1. Select the [Customer Card Add-in on AppSource](https://appsource.microsoft.com/product/dynamics-365/mscrm.dynamics_365_customer_insights_customer_card_addin?tab=Overview) and select **Get It Now**.

You may need to sign in with your admin credentials for the Dynamics 365 app to install the solution. It can take some time for the solution to be installed to your environment.

## Configure the Customer Card Add-in

1. As an admin, go to the **Settings** section in Dynamics 365 and select **Solutions**.

1. Select the **Display Name** link for the **Dynamics 365 Customer Insights Customer Card Add-in (Preview)** solution.

   > [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
   > ![Select display name.](media/select-display-name.png "Select display name.")

1. Select **Sign in** and enter the credentials for the admin account you use to configure Customer Insights.

   > [!NOTE]
   > Check that the browser pop-up blocker does not block the authentication window when you select the **Sign in** button.

1. Select the Customer Insights environment you want to fetch data from.

1. Define the field mapping to records in the Dynamics 365 app. Depending on your data in Customer Insights, you can choose to map the following options:
   - To map with a contact, select the field in the Customer entity that matches the ID of your contact entity.
   - To map with an account, select the field in the Customer entity that matches the ID of your account entity.

   > [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
   > ![Contact ID field.](media/contact-id-field.png "Contact ID field.")

1. Select **Save configuration** to save the settings.

1. Next, you need to assign security roles in Dynamics 365 so users can customize and see the customer card. In Dynamics 365, go to **Settings** > **Security** > **Users**. Select the users to edit user roles and select **Manage roles**.

1. Assign the **Customer Insights Card Customizer** role to users who will customize the content shown on the card for the whole organization.

## Add Customer Card controls to forms

Depending on your scenario, you can choose to add controls to either the **Contact** form or **Account** form. If your Customer Insights environment is for business accounts, we recommended adding the controls to the Account form. In that case, replace "contact" in the below steps with "account."

1. To add the Customer Card controls to your Contact form, go to the **Settings** > **Customizations** in Dynamics 365.

1. Select **Customize the System**.

1. Browse to the **Contact** entity, expand it, and select **Forms**.

1. Select the contact form you want to add the Customer Card controls to.

    > [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
    > ![Select Contact form.](media/contact-active-forms.png "Select Contact form.")

1. To add a control, in the form editor, drag any field from the **Field Explorer** to where you want the control to appear.

1. Select the field on the form that you just added and select **Change Properties**.

1. Go to the **Controls** tab and select **Add Control**. Choose one of the available custom controls and select **Add**.

1. In the **Field Properties** dialog, clear the **Display label on the form** check box.

1. Select the **Web** option for the control. For the Enrichment control, select which enrichment type you want to display by configuring the **enrichmentType** field. Add a separate enrichment control for each enrichment type.

1. Select **Save** and **Publish** to publish the updated contact form.

1. Go to the published contact form. You'll see the newly added control. You might need to sign in the first time you use it.

1. To customize what you want to show on the custom control, select the edit button in the upper-right corner.

## Upgrade Customer Card Add-in

The Customer Card Add-in doesn't upgrade automatically. To upgrade to the latest version, follow these steps in the Dynamics 365 app that has the add-in installed.

1. In the Dynamics 365 app, go to **Settings** > **Customization** and select **Solutions**.

1. In the table of add-ins, look for **CustomerInsightsCustomerCard** and select the row.

1. Select the **Apply Solution Upgrade** in the action bar.

   :::image type="content" source="media/customer-card-add-in-upgrade.png" alt-text="Upgrade the solution in the Customization area of Dynamics 365 apps.":::

1. After starting the upgrade process, you'll see a loading indicator until the upgrade completes. If there's no newer version, the upgrade will show an error message.

## Troubleshooting

### Controls from Customer Card Add-in don't find data

**Problem:**

Even with correctly configured ID fields, the controls can't find data for any customer.  

**Resolution:**

1. Make sure you configured the Card Add-in according to the instructions: [Configure the Customer Card Add-in](#configure-the-customer-card-add-in)

1. Review the data ingestion configuration. Edit the data source for the Dynamics 365 system that contains the contact ID GUID. If the contact ID GUID is shown with uppercase characters in the Power Query editor, try the following steps:
    1. Edit the data source to open the data source in Power Query Editor.
    1. Select the contact ID column.
    1. Select **Transform** in the header bar to see available actions.
    1. Select **lowercase**. Validate if GUIDs in the table are now lowercase.
    1. Save the data source.
    1. Run data ingestion, unification, and downstream processes to propagate the changes to the GUID.

After the system has completed the full refresh, the Customer Card Add-in controls should show the expected data.

[!INCLUDE [footer-include](includes/footer-banner.md)]
